README.md, before:

# Electron + Next.js App Router Template

A minimal template for building desktop applications using Electron and Next.js with the App Router architecture, written in TypeScript.

## Features

- ⚡ **Next.js 15** with App Router architecture and React 19 support
- 🖥️ **Electron 37** for cross-platform desktop applications
- 📘 **TypeScript 5.9** for enhanced type safety
- 🎨 **Tailwind CSS 4** for modern styling
- 🔧 **electron-builder** for packaging and distribution
- 🔄 **Hot reloading** in development mode
- 🛡️ **Security best practices** implemented with CSP
- 📦 **Minimal setup** with essential configurations only
- 🔍 **ESLint 9** with flat config for code quality and consistency
- 💅 **Prettier** for automatic code formatting

## Project Structure

```text
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages and components
│   ├── globals.css        # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout component
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── electron/              # Electron main process
│   ├── main.ts           # Main process entry point
│   └── preload.ts        # Preload script for security
├── public/               # Static assets
├── dist/                 # Built application (generated)
├── out/                  # Next.js static export (generated)
├── package.json          # Dependencies and scripts
├── next.config.ts        # Next.js configuration (TypeScript)
├── tailwind.config.ts    # Tailwind CSS configuration
├── eslint.config.mjs     # ESLint 9 flat configuration
├── electron-builder.json # Electron builder configuration
└── tsconfig.json         # TypeScript configuration
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ (Node.js 20+ recommended)
- pnpm (recommended) or npm/yarn

### Installation

1. Clone or download this template
2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
# or
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

### Development

Start the development server:

```bash
pnpm dev
# or
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

This will:

1. Start the Next.js development server
2. Launch Electron with hot reloading enabled

### Building for Production

Build the application for distribution:

```bash
pnpm build
# or
npm run build
# or
yarn build
```

This will create distributable packages in the `dist/` directory.

### Available Scripts

- `dev` - Start development mode with hot reloading
- `build` - Build the application for production
- `build:nextjs` - Build only the Next.js application
- `build:electron` - Build only the Electron application
- `dist` - Create distributable packages
- `type-check` - Run TypeScript type checking
- `lint` - Run ESLint and fix issues automatically
- `lint:check` - Check for ESLint issues without fixing
- `format` - Format code with Prettier
- `format:check` - Check code formatting without fixing

## Configuration

### Next.js Configuration

The `next.config.ts` file is configured for static export with modern Next.js 15 features, optimized for Electron integration.

### Electron Configuration

The `electron-builder.json` file contains the packaging configuration for different platforms.

### Security

This template implements Electron security best practices:

- Context isolation enabled
- Node integration disabled in renderer
- Preload script for secure IPC communication

### Code Quality

The template includes comprehensive code quality tools:

- **ESLint 9** - Modern flat config for TypeScript, React, and Next.js with type-aware rules
- **Prettier** - Automatic code formatting with consistent style
- **Tailwind CSS 4** - Modern utility-first CSS framework with TypeScript config
- **TypeScript 5.9** - Enhanced type checking with strict settings for both Next.js and Electron
- **VS Code integration** - Automatic formatting and linting on save

## Customization

### Adding New Pages

Create new pages in the `app/` directory following Next.js App Router conventions:

```typescript
// app/about/page.tsx
export default function About() {
  return <h1>About Page</h1>
}
```

### Electron IPC Communication

Use the preload script to expose safe APIs to the renderer process:

```typescript
// electron/preload.ts
import { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } from 'electron'

contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  // Add your APIs here
})
```

## CI/CD and Automation

### GitHub Actions Workflows

This project includes automated GitHub Actions workflows:

#### 🔄 **Build Workflow** (`.github/workflows/build.yml`)

- Runs on push/PR to `main` or `develop` branches
- Code quality checks (TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier)
- Multi-platform builds: Windows, macOS, Linux
- Upload artifacts for each platform
- Automatic release creation when git tags are pushed

#### 🧪 **Test Workflow** (`.github/workflows/test.yml`)

- Tests across multiple Node.js versions (18, 20, 22)
- Security vulnerability scanning
- Dependencies and license auditing

#### 🚀 **Release Workflow** (`.github/workflows/release.yml`)

- Manual trigger for creating releases
- Automatic version updates in package.json
- Git tag creation and changelog generation
- Build and upload distributables

#### 🤖 **Dependabot Auto-merge** (`.github/workflows/dependabot-auto-merge.yml`)

- Automatic merging of patch updates
- Auto-approval of minor updates for dev dependencies
- Warning comments for major updates

### Dependabot Configuration

The `.github/dependabot.yml` file configures:

- Automatic weekly dependency updates
- Grouping of related updates
- Automatic merging of patch updates
- GitHub Actions workflow updates

### Code Signing (Optional)

To enable code signing, add the following secrets to your GitHub repository:

**Windows:**

- `CSC_LINK`: Certificate file (base64 encoded)
- `CSC_KEY_PASSWORD`: Certificate password

**macOS:**

- `APPLE_ID`: Apple ID email
- `APPLE_ID_PASS`: App-specific password
- `APPLE_TEAM_ID`: Apple Team ID

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this template for your projects.

Commit message:

feat: add CI/CD pipeline and automated dependency management
- Add GitHub Actions for multi-platform Electron builds
- Configure Dependabot with auto-merge capabilities
- Fix pnpm workflow setup and include lock file
- Add comprehensive documentation

README.md, after:

# Electron + Next.js App Router Template

A minimal template for building desktop applications using Electron and Next.js with the App Router architecture, written in TypeScript.

## Features

- ⚡ **Next.js 15** with App Router architecture and React 19 support
- 🖥️ **Electron 37** for cross-platform desktop applications
- 📘 **TypeScript 5.9** for enhanced type safety
- 🎨 **Tailwind CSS 4** for modern styling
- 🔧 **electron-builder** for packaging and distribution
- 🔄 **Hot reloading** in development mode
- 🛡️ **Security best practices** implemented with CSP
- 📦 **Minimal setup** with essential configurations only
- 🔍 **ESLint 9** with flat config for code quality and consistency
- 💅 **Prettier** for automatic code formatting

## Project Structure

```text
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages and components
│   ├── globals.css        # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout component
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── electron/              # Electron main process
│   ├── main.ts           # Main process entry point
│   └── preload.ts        # Preload script for security
├── public/               # Static assets
├── dist/                 # Built application (generated)
├── out/                  # Next.js static export (generated)
├── package.json          # Dependencies and scripts
├── next.config.ts        # Next.js configuration (TypeScript)
├── tailwind.config.ts    # Tailwind CSS configuration
├── eslint.config.mjs     # ESLint 9 flat configuration
├── electron-builder.json # Electron builder configuration
└── tsconfig.json         # TypeScript configuration
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ (Node.js 20+ recommended)
- pnpm (recommended) or npm/yarn

### Installation

1. Clone or download this template
2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
# or
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

### Development

Start the development server:

```bash
pnpm dev
# or
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

This will:

1. Start the Next.js development server
2. Launch Electron with hot reloading enabled

### Building for Production

Build the application for distribution:

```bash
pnpm build
# or
npm run build
# or
yarn build
```

This will create distributable packages in the `dist/` directory.

### Available Scripts

- `dev` - Start development mode with hot reloading
- `build` - Build the application for production
- `build:nextjs` - Build only the Next.js application
- `build:electron` - Build only the Electron application
- `dist` - Create distributable packages
- `type-check` - Run TypeScript type checking
- `lint` - Run ESLint and fix issues automatically
- `lint:check` - Check for ESLint issues without fixing
- `format` - Format code with Prettier
- `format:check` - Check code formatting without fixing

## Configuration

### Next.js Configuration

The `next.config.ts` file is configured for static export with modern Next.js 15 features, optimized for Electron integration.

### Electron Configuration

The `electron-builder.json` file contains the packaging configuration for different platforms.

### Security

This template implements Electron security best practices:

- Context isolation enabled
- Node integration disabled in renderer
- Preload script for secure IPC communication

### Code Quality

The template includes comprehensive code quality tools:

- **ESLint 9** - Modern flat config for TypeScript, React, and Next.js with type-aware rules
- **Prettier** - Automatic code formatting with consistent style
- **Tailwind CSS 4** - Modern utility-first CSS framework with TypeScript config
- **TypeScript 5.9** - Enhanced type checking with strict settings for both Next.js and Electron
- **VS Code integration** - Automatic formatting and linting on save

## Customization

### Adding New Pages

Create new pages in the `app/` directory following Next.js App Router conventions:

```typescript
// app/about/page.tsx
export default function About() {
  return <h1>About Page</h1>
}
```

### Electron IPC Communication

Use the preload script to expose safe APIs to the renderer process:

```typescript
// electron/preload.ts
import { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } from 'electron'

contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  // Add your APIs here
})
```

## CI/CD and Automation

### GitHub Actions Workflows

This project includes automated GitHub Actions workflows:

#### 🔄 **Build Workflow** (`.github/workflows/build.yml`)

- Runs on push/PR to `main` or `develop` branches
- Code quality checks (TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier)
- Multi-platform builds: Windows, macOS, Linux
- Upload artifacts for each platform
- Automatic release creation when git tags are pushed

#### 🧪 **Test Workflow** (`.github/workflows/test.yml`)

- Tests across multiple Node.js versions (18, 20, 22)
- Security vulnerability scanning
- Dependencies and license auditing

#### 🚀 **Release Workflow** (`.github/workflows/release.yml`)

- Manual trigger for creating releases
- Automatic version updates in package.json
- Git tag creation and changelog generation
- Build and upload distributables

#### 🤖 **Dependabot Auto-merge** (`.github/workflows/dependabot-auto-merge.yml`)

- Automatic merging of patch updates
- Auto-approval of minor updates for dev dependencies
- Warning comments for major updates

### Dependabot Configuration

The `.github/dependabot.yml` file configures:

- Automatic weekly dependency updates
- Grouping of related updates
- Automatic merging of patch updates
- GitHub Actions workflow updates

### Lock File Management

This project uses pnpm and includes `pnpm-lock.yaml` for reproducible builds:

- **Commit the lock file**: `pnpm-lock.yaml` should be committed to ensure consistent dependency versions
- **First setup**: Run `pnpm install` locally to generate the lock file
- **CI/CD**: Workflows will use the committed lock file for faster, reproducible builds

### Code Signing (Optional)

To enable code signing, add the following secrets to your GitHub repository:

**Windows:**

- `CSC_LINK`: Certificate file (base64 encoded)
- `CSC_KEY_PASSWORD`: Certificate password

**macOS:**

- `APPLE_ID`: Apple ID email
- `APPLE_ID_PASS`: App-specific password
- `APPLE_TEAM_ID`: Apple Team ID

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this template for your projects.
